# IOSink

```dart
abstract interface class IOSink implements StreamSink<List<int>>, StringSink {}
```

A combined byte and text output.

An [IOSink] combines a [StreamSink] of bytes with a [StringSink], and allows easy output of both bytes and text.

An `IOSink` is intended for writing bytes. Strings written through [write] or [writeCharCode] will be converted to bytes using [encoding]. Integer data added using [add] or [addStream] will be treated as byte data, and will be truncated to unsigned 8-bit values as by using [int.toUnsigned]. No guarantees are given for when such a conversion happens, since it depends on the implementation behind the sink.

Writing text ([write]) and adding bytes ([add]) may be interleaved freely.

While a stream is being added using [addStream], any further attempts to add or write to the [IOSink] will fail until the [addStream] completes.

It is an error to add data to the [IOSink] after the sink is closed.

### IOSink()

```dart
IOSink(StreamConsumer<List<int>> target, {Encoding encoding = utf8})
```

Create an [IOSink] that outputs to a [target] [StreamConsumer] of bytes.

Text written to [StreamSink] methods is encoded to bytes using [encoding] before being output on [target].

### encoding

```dart
Encoding encoding
```

The [Encoding] used when writing strings.

Depending on the underlying consumer, this property might be mutable.

### add()

```dart
void add(List<int> data)
```

Adds byte [data] to the target consumer, ignoring [encoding].

The [encoding] does not apply to this method, and the [data] list is passed directly to the target consumer as a stream event.

This method must not be called when a stream is currently being added using [addStream].

This operation is non-blocking. See [flush] or [done] for how to get any errors generated by this call.

The data list should not be modified after it has been passed to `add` because it is not defined whether the target consumer will receive the list in the original or modified state.

Individual values in [data] which are not in the range 0 .. 255 will be truncated to their low eight bits, as if by [int.toUnsigned], before being used.

### write()

```dart
void write(Object? object)
```

Converts [object] to a String by invoking [Object.toString] and [add]s the encoding of the result to the target consumer.

This operation is non-blocking. See [flush] or [done] for how to get any errors generated by this call.

### writeAll()

```dart
void writeAll(Iterable objects, [String separator = ""])
```

Iterates over the given [objects] and [write]s them in sequence.

If [separator] is provided, a `write` with the `separator` is performed between any two elements of objects.

This operation is non-blocking. See [flush] or [done] for how to get any errors generated by this call.

### writeln()

```dart
void writeln([Object? object = ""])
```

Converts [object] to a String by invoking [Object.toString] and writes the result to `this`, followed by a newline.

This operation is non-blocking. See [flush] or [done] for how to get any errors generated by this call.

### writeCharCode()

```dart
void writeCharCode(int charCode)
```

Writes the character of [charCode].

This method is equivalent to `write(String.fromCharCode(charCode))`.

This operation is non-blocking. See [flush] or [done] for how to get any errors generated by this call.

### addError()

```dart
void addError(dynamic error, [StackTrace? stackTrace])
```

Passes the error to the target consumer as an error event.

This method must not be called when a stream is currently being added using [addStream].

This operation is non-blocking. See [flush] or [done] for how to get any errors generated by this call.

### addStream()

```dart
Future addStream(Stream<List<int>> stream)
```

Adds all elements of the given [stream].

Returns a [Future] that completes when all elements of the given [stream] have been added.

If the stream contains an error, the `addStream` ends at the error, and the returned future completes with that error.

This method must not be called when a stream is currently being added using this method.

Individual values in the lists emitted by [stream] which are not in the range 0 .. 255 will be truncated to their low eight bits, as if by [int.toUnsigned], before being used.

### flush()

```dart
Future flush()
```

Returns a [Future] that completes once all buffered data is accepted by the underlying [StreamConsumer].

This method must not be called while an [addStream] is incomplete.

NOTE: This is not necessarily the same as the data being flushed by the operating system.

### close()

```dart
Future close()
```

Close the target consumer.

NOTE: Writes to the [IOSink] may be buffered, and may not be flushed by a call to `close()`. To flush all buffered writes, call `flush()` before calling `close()`.

### done

```dart
Future get done
```

A future that will complete when the consumer closes, or when an error occurs.

This future is identical to the future returned by [close].
